Modify S2083&S6096(Education): Add Partial Path Traversal to pitfalls (#1243)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S2083/java/how-to-fix-it/java-se.adoc

=== How does this work?

include::../../common/fix/how-does-this-work.adoc[]

=== Pitfalls

include::../../common/pitfalls/partial-path-traversal.adoc[]

For example, the following code is vulnerable to partial path injection. Note
that the string `targetDirectory` does not end with a path separator:

[source, java]
----
static private String targetDirectory = "/Users/John";

@GetMapping(value = "/endpoint")
public void endpoint(@RequestParam("folder") fileName) throws IOException {

    String canonicalizedFileName = fileName.getCanonicalPath();

    if (!canonicalizedFileName .startsWith(targetDirectory)) {
        throw new IOException("Entry is outside of the target directory");
    }
}
----

This check can be bypassed because `"/Users/Johnny".startsWith("/Users/John")`
returns `true`. Thus, for validation, `"/Users/John"` should actually be
`"/Users/John/"`.

**Warning**: Some functions, such as `.getCanonicalPath`, remove the

> terminating path separator in their return value and cannot be used for
> validation. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
terminating path separator in their return value. +
```

> Validation code should be tested to ensure that it cannot be thwarted by this

Author: ```suggestion
The validation code should be tested to ensure that it cannot be impacted by this
```
